DOC Tidy up writing style of performance section (#766)
silverstripe/developer-docs: en/02_Developer_Guides/08_Performance/00_Partial_Template_Caching.md

# Partial template caching

> Partial template caching allows you to cache rendered portions of a template, avoiding recomputation on each request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Partial template caching allows you to cache rendered portions of a template, so that it does not need to be recomputed on each request.
```

I think the style this PR is aiming for is prioritising clear wording - if that's the goal, I think the old wording of this one part was clearer (thinking primarily of people for whom English isn't their first language) even though it's more verbose.

This suggestion is very subjective so feel free to reject with a reason and I won't challenge it.

Author: Updated

See [Partial template caching](../templates/partial_template_caching) in the templates section for detailed usage instructions.

> This page discusses performance considerations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page discusses some of the performance considerations.
```
Unless we're sure this is _all_ of the performance considerations, I'd prefer to keep this worded in a way that implies it may not be a complete set.

Author: Updated

## Cache block conditionals

Use conditions whenever possible. The cache tag supports optional `if` or `unless` conditions, which are highly recommended.

> [!WARNING]

> > Avoid heavy computations in conditionals, as they are evaluated for every template rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Avoid heavy computations in conditionals, as they are evaluated every time the template needs to be rendered.
```

Author: Updated

If you cache without conditions:

> - The cache backend will be queried for the cache block on every template render.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The cache backend will be queried for the cache block on every template render even if it's not needed.
```

I read this thinking "wait but why _wouldn't_ it be queried?"... forgetting that if there is a condition and the condition is false, the cache won't be needed and therefore won't be queried :sweat_smile:

Author: Updated

- Your cache may be cluttered with redundant data, especially with the default filesystem backend.

> For example, if you use `$DataObject->ID` as a key for the block, add a condition that the ID is greater than zero:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you use `$DataObject->ID` as a key for the block, consider adding a condition that the ID is greater than zero:
```
You don't _have_ to add a condition just because you're querying for ID - you might know it's always going to be >0 so the condition would be redundant.

Author: Updated

```ss
<% cached $MenuItem.ID if $MenuItem.ID > 0 %>
```

To cache content for anonymous users, but dynamically calculate it for logged-in members, use:

```ss
<% cached unless $CurrentUser %>
```

## Cache invalidation strategies

### Aggregates-based invalidation {#aggregates}

> To invalidate the cache when any object in a set changes, or when objects in a relationship change, use [DataList](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataList) aggregate methods (Aggregates). These perform SQL aggregate queries on sets of [DataObject](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObject)s.

Reviewer: I prefer the old wording because:

1. Not all data is in a `DataList`
2. There are other ways to solve this problem, such as generating a cache-key on CRUD (as with https://github.com/silverstripe-terraformers/keys-for-cache)

Author: Reverted

> Useful methods of the [DataList](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataList) class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some useful methods of the [`DataList`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataList) class for this purpose include:
```
or just keep the old wording

Author: Updated

- `int count()`: Returns the number of items in this DataList.
- `mixed max(string $fieldName)`: Returns the maximum value of the given field in this DataList.
- `mixed min(string $fieldName)`: Returns the minimum value of the given field in this DataList.
- `mixed avg(string $fieldName)`: Returns the average value of the given field in this DataList.
- `mixed sum(string $fieldName)`: Returns the sum of the values of the given field in this DataList.

> To construct a `DataList` over a `DataObject`, use the global template variable `$List`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To construct a `DataList` over a `DataObject`, you can use the global template variable `$List`.
```
That's one way - probably not even the best practice these days (normally you'd make the list in PHP and get it into the template with a getter method - but since this is just about writing style and not best practices, just the suggestion above is fine)

Author: Updated

> For example, to update a menu whenever any page is edited, and have it cached otherwise:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to cache a menu but invalidate that cache whenever any page is edited:
```

Author: Updated

> [!NOTE]
> The use of the fully qualified classname is necessary.
>
> Using both `.max('LastEdited')` and `.count()` ensures we check for any object edited or deleted since the cache was last built.

> The cache will update whenever a page is added, removed or edited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the cache will update whenever a page is added, removed or edited.
```

Author: Updated

> [!WARNING]

> > Be careful when using aggregates. The database is often a performance bottleneck. Every key of every cached block is recalculated for every template render, regardless of caching result. Aggregating SQL queries can put more load on the database than simple select queries, especially if you query records by Primary Key or join tables using database indices properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Be careful when using aggregates. The database is often a performance bottleneck. Keep in mind that every key of every cached block is recalculated for every template render, regardless of caching result. Aggregating SQL queries can put more load on the database than simple select queries, especially if you query records by Primary Key or join tables using database indices properly.
```
I like this wording from the original - for me it invokes a call to action. It's like "whenever you're using aggregates, keep this in mind" as opposed to just providing me this information as a one-time thing that I'll forget later.

Author: Updated

> [controller method](../templates/partial_template_caching/#cache-key-calculated-in-controller).
> [Object Caching](../templates/caching/#object-caching) only works for single variables and not for chained expressions.

### Time-based invalidation

> To prioritise speed over always showing the latest data, construct the cache key to invalidate less often than the data updates. This ensures constant rendering time, regardless of how often the data updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some situations it's more important to be fast than to always be showing the latest data. One way to achieve this is to construct the cache key to invalidate less often than the data updates. This ensures constant rendering time, regardless of how often the data updates.
```
I prefer the "in some situations" language - to me it helps me think about what my own code is doing, and consider if this is a situation that applies for me.

Author: Updated

For instance, if you show blog statistics, but are happy with slightly stale data:

```ss
<% cached 'blogstatistics', $Blog.ID %>
```

> This will invalidate after the cache lifetime expires. For more control (cache lifetime is [configurable only on a site-wide basis](/developer_guides/templates/partial_template_caching/#cache-storage)), add a function to your controller:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This doesn't require any additional SQL queries and will invalidate after the cache lifetime expires. Cache lifetime is [configurable only on a site-wide basis](/developer_guides/templates/partial_template_caching/#cache-storage). For more control, add a function to your controller:
```

Author: Updated

}
```

Then use it in the cache key:

```ss
<% cached 'blogstatistics', $Blog.ID, $BlogStatisticsCount %>
```

## Cache backend

> The template engine uses [Injector](../extending/injector) service `Psr\SimpleCache\CacheInterface.cacheblock` as a caching backend. The default definition of that service is conservative, and relies on the server filesystem. While this is the most common denominator, it's not the most robust or performant implementation. If you have a better solution, consider tuning this setting. To swap the cache backend for partial template cache blocks, redefine this service for the Injector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The template engine uses [Injector](../extending/injector) service `Psr\SimpleCache\CacheInterface.cacheblock` as its caching backend. The default definition of that service is conservative, and relies on the server filesystem. While this is the most common denominator, it's not the most robust or performant implementation. If you have a better solution available on your platform, you should consider tuning this setting. To swap the cache backend for partial template cache blocks, redefine this service for the Injector.
```

The "available on your platform" part is important here - without it, it's implying "if you can think of a better way of doing this" - with it, it's implying "if your hosting platform has something like redis or memcached, use that"

Reviewer: (done)

```

> [!WARNING]

> > The default filesystem cache backend does not support auto cleanup of the residual files with expired cache records. If your project relies on Template Caching heavily (e.g. thousands of cache records daily), monitor the filesystem storage, as its capacity may eventually be exhausted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The default filesystem cache backend does not support auto cleanup of the residual files with expired cache records. If your project relies on Template Caching heavily (e.g. thousands of cache records daily), you may want to monitor the filesystem storage. If you don't, its capacity may eventually be exhausted.
```
I prefer "you may want to" instead of telling people what to do, though I don't feel strongly about that.
I do feel a little stronger about adding "If you don't," instead of "as"

Author: Updated
